Welcome to the world of VEX Robotics and Team SymbiOHSis. In 2008 NZ was 
introduced to this competition with a game called Elevation. Onehunga High
School was one of the first schools in NZ to join the competition as can be seen 
from our team number of 2900!

Students and teachers were quick to appreciate the 
opportunity that such a competition offered. Here was a chance to work as a team 
to showcase the skills required to design, build and programme a robot to 
perform a range of functions allowing it to best compete within the game 
parameters. To do well at this competition also requires students to develop 
their interpersonal skills. They need to be able to promote their robots and 
drivers’ abilities to other teams to create the alliances needed at the finals 
level of each tournament.

As the years have progressed the quality of the robots have steadily improved.
This has seen SymbiOHSis attend and win the NZ Nationals numerous times. 
We have also attended the World Robotics Championships multiple times. 2012 saw 
SymbiOHSis as part of a very strong alliance which eventually won their division 
and ultimately the World Champions title. These results were the culmination of 
many hours of hard work and testing, a way of thinking that still exists today 
within the ethos of Team SymbiOHSis. Robotics feature proximately in the lives 
of the students involved in this programme.

Not only do the students spend many 
hours perfecting their own robots but they also give back to the community. They 
offer this unique opportunity to the younger children of the area by bringing 
the robots to local primary schools, cub and scout evenings and have run 
numerous day programmes together with the local community library. 
Helping introduce robotics to younger children is one way to give back to those 
who have helped us develop and pursue our passion for robotics.

Thank you to everyone who has been a part of team SymbiOHSis and we look forward 
to the continual development of this team’s abilities. 
